**Lab 4 - Connect to session hosts (Entra ID)**

**Lab dependencies**

- An Azure subscription you will be using in this lab.

- A Microsoft Entra user account with the Owner or Contributor role in
  the Azure subscription you will be using in this lab and with the
  permissions sufficient to join devices to the Entra tenant associated
  with that Azure subscription.

- The lab *Deploy host pools and session hosts by using the Azure portal
  (Entra ID)* completed

- The lab *Manage host pools and session hosts by using the Azure portal
  (Entra ID)* completed

**Estimated Time**

50 minutes

**Lab scenario**

You have an existing Azure Virtual Desktop environment containing Entra
joined session hosts. You need to validate their functionality by
connecting to them from a Windows 11 client which is not Microsoft
Entra-joined or registered.

**Objectives**

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Validate the functionality of Microsoft Entra joined Azure Virtual
  Desktop session hosts by connecting to them from a Windows client
  which is not Microsoft Entra-joined or registered.

**Lab files**

- None

**Instructions**

**Exercise 1: Validate the functionality of Microsoft Entra joined Azure
Virtual Desktop session hosts by connecting to them from a Windows 11
client**

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Adjust RDP properties of the Azure Virtual Desktop host pool

2.  Install Microsoft Remote Desktop client on a Windows 11 computer

3.  Subscribe to the Azure Virtual Desktop workspace

4.  Test Azure Virtual Desktop apps

**Task 1: Adjust RDP properties of the Azure Virtual Desktop host pool**

**Note**: The RDP settings you implemented in the previous lab provide
the optimal user experience (via support for single sign-on), however,
this requires additional changes described in [Configure single sign-on
for Azure Virtual Desktop using Microsoft Entra ID
authentication](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/configure-single-sign-on).
Without these changes, by default, authentication is supported providing
that the client computer satisfies one of the following criteria:

- It is Microsoft Entra joined to the same Microsoft Entra tenant as the
  session host

- It is Microsoft Entra hybrid joined to the same Microsoft Entra tenant
  as the session host

- It is Microsoft Entra registered to the same Microsoft Entra tenant as
  the session host

Since none of these criteria apply to the lab computer, it is necessary
to add targetisaadjoined:i:1 as a custom RDP property to the host pool.

1.  If needed, from the lab computer, start a web browser, navigate to
    the Azure portal and sign in by providing credentials of a user
    account with the Owner role in the subscription you will be using in
    this lab.

**Note**: Use the credentials of the User1- account listed on the
Resources tab on the right side of the lab session window.

2.  In the web browser displaying the Azure portal, on
    the **az140-21-hp1** Azure Virtual Desktop host pool page, in the in
    the vertical menu bar, in the **Settings** section, select the **RDP
    Properties** entry.

3.  On the **az140-21-hp1 | RDP Properties** page, select
    the **Advanced** tab.

4.  On the **Advanced** tab of the **az140-21-hp1 | RDP
    Properties** page, in the **RDP Properties** text box, append the
    following string to the existing content (make sure to add a leading
    semicolon character (;) if needed to separate this string from the
    one which precedes it:
    
`targetisaadjoined:i:1                                                                         `

6.  In the **RDP Properties** text box, remove the following string (if
    present) from the existing content (with its trailing semicolon
    character):

`enablerdsaadauth:i:value                                                                      `

6.  On the **az140-21-hp1 | RDP Properties** page, select **Save**.

**Task 2: Install Microsoft Remote Desktop client on a Windows 11
computer**

1.  From the lab computer, start a web browser, navigate to the [Connect
    to Azure Virtual Desktop with the Remote Desktop client for
    Windows](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/users/connect-windows) page,
    scroll down to the section **Download and install the Remote Desktop
    client (MSI)**, and select the [Windows
    64-bit](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2139369) link. You
    can also use the
    [weblink](https://client.wvd.microsoft.com/arm/webclient/index.html)
    to login to access the Remote Desktop client.

2.  Open File Explorer, navigate to the **Downloads** folder. Select the
    downloaded file to launch the installation of the newly downloaded
    MSI file or you can directly open the weblink and login to the User
    account.

3.  In the **Remote Desktop Setup** window, when prompted, accept the
    terms of the licensing agreement and choose the option to **Install
    for all users of this machine**. If prompted, accept the User
    Account Control prompt to proceed with the installation.

4.  Once the installation completes, ensure that the **Launch Remote
    Desktop when setup exits** checkbox is selected and
    select **Finish** to start the Microsoft Remote Desktop client.

**Note**: The [Remote Desktop Store
app](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/users/connect-windows?pivots=rd-store) for
Windows doesn't support connecting to Microsoft Entra-joined session
hosts.

**Task 3: Subscribe to the Azure Virtual Desktop workspace**

1.  On the lab computer, switch to the **Remote Desktop** client window,
    select **Subscribe** and, when prompted, sign in with the
    credentials of the User1 Entra ID user account which you can locate
    on the **Resources** tab in the right pane of the lab interface
    window.

**Note**: Select the user account which is the member of the Entra group
with the **AVD-DAG** prefix.

**Note**: Alternatively, in the **Remote Desktop** client window,
select **Subscribe with URL**, in the **Subscribe to a Workspace** pane,
in the **Email or Workspace URL**,
type [**https://client.wvd.microsoft.com/api/arm/feeddiscovery**](https://client.wvd.microsoft.com/api/arm/feeddiscovery),
select **Next**, and, once prompted, sign in with the Microsoft Entra
credentials.

2.  Ensure that the **Remote Desktop** page displays only
    the **SessionDesktop** icon.

**Note**: This is expected, because the Microsoft Entra user account you
selected was assigned in the first lab *Deploy host pools and session
hosts by using the Azure portal (Entra ID)* to the
auto-generated **az140-21-hp1-DAG** desktop application group.

3.  On the **Remote Desktop** page, right-click
    the **SessionDesktop** icon and, in the pop-up menu,
    select **Settings**.

4.  In the **SessionDesktop** pane, turn off the **Use default
    settings** switch.

5.  In the **Display settings** section, in the drop-down menu, select
    the entry **Select displays** and choose the displays you want to
    use for the session.

6.  In the **SessionDesktop** pane, review the remaining options,
    including **Maximize to current displays**, **Single display when in
    windowed mode** and **Fit session to window**, without making any
    changes.

7.  Close the **SessionDesktop** pane.

8.  On the **Remote Desktop** page, double-click
    the **SessionDesktop** icon.

9.  When prompted to sign in, in the **Windows Security** dialog box,
    enter the password of the first Microsoft Entra user account, which
    you used in this task to connect to the target Azure Virtual Desktop
    environment.

**Note**: Azure Virtual Desktop does not support signing in to Microsoft
Entra ID with one user account, then signing in to Windows with a
separate user account. Signing in with two different accounts at the
same time can lead to users reconnecting to the wrong session host,
incorrect or missing information in the Azure portal, and error messages
appearing while using app attach or MSIX app attach.

**Note**: You will be automatically presented with
the **SessionDesktop** window.

10. In the Remote Desktop session window, verify that you have full
    administrative access within the session (for example, select
    the **Windows** logo icon in the taskbar and then select
    the **Windows PowerShell (Admin)** item from the pop-up menu.

11. Within the Remote Desktop session window, select the Windows logo
    icon in the taskbar, select the avatar icon representing the
    Microsoft Entra user account you used to sign in and, in the pop-up
    menu, select **Sign out**.

**Note**: This will automatically terminate the Remote Desktop session.

12. Back in the **Remote Desktop** window, select the ellipsis (...)
    icon to the right of the **az140-21-ws1** workspace entry,
    select **Unsubscribe** and, when prompted to confirm,
    select **Continue**.

13. In the **Remote Desktop** client window, select **Subscribe** and,
    when prompted, sign in with the credentials of the second Entra ID
    user account which you can locate on the **Resources** tab in the
    right pane of the lab interface window.

**Note**: Select the user account which is the member of the Entra group
with the **AVD-RemoteApp** prefix.

14. Ensure that the **Remote Desktop** page displays four icons,
    including Command Prompt, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft
    PowerPoint.

**Note**: This is expected, because the Microsoft Entra user account you
selected was assigned in the first lab *Deploy host pools and session
hosts by using the Azure portal (Entra ID)* to
the **az140-21-hp1-Office365-RAG** and **az140-21-hp1-Utilities-RAG** application
groups.

15. Double-click the Command Prompt icon.

16. When prompted to sign in, in the **Windows Security** dialog box,
    enter the password of the second Microsoft Entra user account you
    used to connect to the target Azure Virtual Desktop environment.

17. Verify that a **Command Prompt** window appears shortly afterwards.

18. In the Command Prompt window, type **hostname** and press
    the **Enter** key to display the name of the computer on which the
    Command Prompt is running.

**Note**: Verify that the displayed name starts with the **sh-** prefix.

19. At the Command Prompt, type **logoff** and press the **Enter** key
    to log off from the current Remote App session.

20. Double-click the remaining icons on the **Remote Desktop** page to
    launch Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, and Microsoft PowerPoint.

21. Close each session window.
